This iPad app was designed to help anyone sell tickets to an event. It is a tool that helps the user quickly figure out the ticket total and whether or not they owe the patron any change.
This app has two views: a “set up” view, and the “cash register” view. In the “set up” view the user can name the ticket types and indicate how much they cost. Then, once the event is set up, the user switches to the “cashier” mode. Here is where the user can easily calculate the ticket total using the stepper buttons. Then, after he/she has been paid, he can punch in the amount of “Cash Taken” and the app will quickly calculate if the patron still owes money, or is due any change.
While I was building this app, I came across some interesting challenges that dictated some of my design decisions. For example, in the set up screen, when the user wants to edit ticket type #4 or #5, the soft keyboard is raised and covers up the text edit view. So in order to get around this, I made all the UI elements animate up so the user can see what he is typing. Another interesting challenge was getting the “Cash Taken” keypad to work correctly. I had to do a lot of converting strings to floats and vise versa; it was difficult to get the keypad to work like a calculator keypad, especially when you wanted to punch in a decimal number. Finally, I spent
some time in Photoshop getting all the icons and load screen to look just right. I found that in order for them to display, they must be an exact resolution.
All in all, this was a great app to learn how many of the UI elements, animations, and data passing work. I hope to add some more functionality to it, such as a ticket sale log, then put it up on the App Store.
